>> Marcy Sutton: Okay, so some more tools
for your own debugging cuz I'm gonna send
you off to do your own debugging
journey here in a moment.
This could be come in handy for you.
So hidden versus visible CSS.
This can really impact things like,
where are your focus can go?
What HTML is actually read
aloud in a screen reader?
And I have a Demo button here that I can
go and play with in developer tools.
I'm gonna dock the dev tools over here on
the right so we can see what's going on.
So this Demo button,
if I Ctrl+Click and Inspect element,
I can play with it in this Styles panel.
So I have a CSS class here
called visually hidden and
this is a utility class that I have
in every CSS file of every project.
It might be called like sr-only.
It might be visually hidden without a dash
in it, you can call it whatever you want.
But the general premise is that it will
take an HTML element and render it so
that it's part of the pages accessibility
information, but it's hidden visually.
So this can be useful for
things like spans that have
screen reader text in them.
Headings that you wanna add to
a section for semantic purposes, but
aren't in the design or
aren't in the layout.
Visually hidden is a really common
utility, but it does render.
So sometimes it's not the right tool
because you wanna hide something from
everyone which would be displayNone.
So let's play along with this.
I'm gonna start by adding visually-hidden,
since I have that class in this files,
now we can see it matches.
And that button, it's rendering,
but it's pulled out of the flow
of the document, so
it's not reserving that space anymore.
And if I go over here in the dev tools,
I have the Accessibility inspector.
And I can see that it has
contents of Demo button.
So for a screen reader or
assistive technology,
I'm still putting that information
through accessible APIs.
So let's go back to this button,
let's play with this other options that
we have here cuz there is multiple tools.
So I'm gonna delete that class and
the next one we look at is a opacity.
So I'm just gonna add the style,
I'll do opacity: 0;.
It reserved its space.
So it has not been pulled out
of the flow of the layout.
It's reserving space, so that might
be something I could use to animate.
If I need to transition something in,
visually hidden those
properties are not animateable.
displayNone, which we'll look at in
a second is also not animateable.
So opacity is a tool that you
might use in your toolbox.
But if I go and look at this,
it also says, Demo button.
So its contents are being passed through
just like the visually hidden class.
So it's a way of visually hiding
things that reserve the space and
still get rendered, technically.
So let's look at the next one.
So that's opacity: 0.
Let's do display: none;.
So that pulled it out of the flow,
that hid it from everyone.
displayNone is also a really
common tool that you might use
because it hides it from the display and
it hides it from assistive technology.
Let's see, refresh this.
So sometimes if you change
the styles on the fly and you're
using the Chrome Accessibility Inspector,
you might need to click off the button or
element and come back because
it needs to refresh the tree.
But it's now saying that this element
is not rendered and it's being ignored.
So there is no accessibility information.
And if you have things that are maybe
inactive, there are parts of your
interface that you aren't using right
now and they're hidden from view and
from everyone, displayNone is
a really great tool for that.
And then the last one we'll
look at is visibility: hidden.
So this one also reserved the space for
the look at the accessibility of this,.
Click off again and come back,
just to make sure that it's up to date.
This one will, so
it reserves the space, but
it hides its accessibility information.
So it's kind of like opacity,
except that it is taking that
accessibility information away.
So that's another tool that you might use.
Maybe you, let's see,
when would you use visibility hidden?
Sometimes you just need something in
the layout that's gonna stay there but
you don't want it to be adding to
the accessibility information of the page.
So when you're debugging and
looking for keyword issues and
looking at these things, these are some of
the styles that you might be looking for.
Maybe it's applied just in the middle
of a larger class or something.
It's good to know how those CSS
properties impact accessibility.